The best founders kind of um
they don't really rest on their laurels
and they don't like sleep on wins. They
essentially do something great, they
celebrate for like a day, and then back
to it. So, like I just did Tony Xu of
DoorDash, who I think you guys were
investors in. He's like, "We got so much
more to do." He's like, "Okay, we had a
something good happen. Like, let's go
out to dinner." And by the time of the
dinner, before dinner's over, I'm
thinking of the 17 things that are not
going right. That's why he's great.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Okay. Today, we have David Sacks on the
show. I've been a huge fan of his pod
for a long time. He basically goes way
down the rabbit hole on great founders
from Jesus of Nazareth all the way up to
Jensen Huang. Very, very, very deep down
those rabbit holes. So, what I wanted to
know
is what do all the great founders have
in common, and how do we apply that to
today's founders? How do we apply that
to picking the best founders, and how do
we apply that to coaching my best CEOs?
I hope you like the episode.
>> You have gone very deep on a lot of
founders, a lot of CEOs, a lot of
successful people from Jesus of Nazareth
to Jensen Huang.
What's the one thing they have in
common?
>> If I had to distill every single thing
down to one word, it'd just be like
focus. They're just unbelievably focused
compared to not only the average person,
it's almost like they're a different
species, but I would even say to like
today's founders. They are just much
more focused and less distracted, and
like not really looking around at what
other people are doing. They kind of
don't really care how other people are
doing what they're doing. The way I put
this is like there's a maxim for this,
is like mute the world and then build
your own.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, like let me give an example of
this. This This isn't out on my new show
yet, but I just spent a several hours
with Dana White. I call him the founder
of the UFC, even though it's like, "Oh,
they bought company."
>> Yeah.
>> And Dana, first of all, is one of my
favorite conversations I've ever had. We
had so much fun. But, when he tells the
story of the UFC, where it's like, you
know, he's 19 years old, he's a bellman
in a hotel in Boston, and he's he
self-described loser. He's just like,
"I'm just a loser. I have nothing going
on. But, I'm obsessed with fighting." At
that time, it's boxing. He's a huge
boxing fan. And he has this idea, he's
like, "I should just move to Vegas, the
fight capital of the world, and try to
just work in the industry." Now, he's
trying to build the world's biggest
combat organization, but he's just like,
"I just need to work in this industry."
And he was like going back and forth,
he's like, "This is stupid." He goes,
"I'm a bellman. I could be a bellman at
35. This doesn't work out. I could be a
bellman at 35. I could be a bellman at
50. So, I have nothing. I have no wife,
no kids." And he just goes,
starts working in the industry, taking
any job he can get, starts promoting, uh
excuse me, managing fighters, then
starts managing this weird thing called
MMA, and these fighters for this thing
called UFC, which is
nothing. They're in front of tiny
crowds, there's no money. And so, he's
on the phone cuz he's a repping two
fighters, and one of the fighters is
owed money by the UFC.
And he's like, "Dude, like you need to
pay him." Like, and the guy screams at
him, the owner. He's like, "There's no
[__] money. There's no money." So,
Dana hangs up, calls the Fertitta
brothers, whose their father built a
casino. He's like, "I think we could buy
this whole thing."
What you realize is he's a missionary
founder. I think the best founders are
missionary. Like, if you go back and
look at Jensen or Steve Jobs or Bezos or
any of these people, Elon, missionary.
And he's like, "I think we could buy
this thing." They buy for Q million.
Takes them like six years. He's making
no money. They're just they're losing
money. They have to dump another 40
million into it until it's profitable.
And he tells this whole story. So, I'll
get to the end cuz he's still been
running it for 26 years. And now, they
just did a, you know, almost an 8
billion-dollar deal for their TV rights.
At a time where, you know, he's making
no money for the first 6 years. The
first time he makes money, they write on
the board the compensation for the
partners, and he can't believe it. He's
like, "Oh my god, I'm going to make a
million dollars." He thought he was
rich. I can't even tell you what he told
me he makes now. What he told me off
camera it's just it would blow your
mind. And the reason I bring this up is
because I talked to him he's like I've
never read a single book about business.
I've never really listened to a single
podcast about business. All I did was
like I'm the fan. So like when we bought
the company I never sold tickets, didn't
have any know anything about production.
He's just like I just made what I wanted
to see.
And so that's mute the world and build
your own. His entire world is his
business and then anything doing outside
he doesn't care about. He's just
unbelievably focused.
>> I thought you were going to say the word
obsession. Is it the same thing?
>> I think they're they're like
closely related. I think if you were
intensely focused on something I don't
know anybody that's intensely focused on
something that's not that you wouldn't
call obsessed. Yeah. And but I think
focus the difference between focus and
obsession is your focus is what did
Steve Jobs say? Focus is saying no.
Yeah. Like Jony Ive has this great
interview that he did with Vanity Fair a
few years ago.
And you know he's like one of the things
he's like Steve was the most remarkably
focused person I've ever come across.
And one time you know he were talking
about this and he's like well how many
things have you said no to? And he's
like well and Jony he's like I said no
to this and I said no to that. He's like
Steve's like no no you didn't want to do
that. Focus is saying no to a good idea
that you really want to do and because
it distracts you from a great idea.
>> Where does this come from? Like you've
looked at their childhoods is there
something that happened early to them?
Do they have very normal upbringings?
Are they normal kids or are they weird?
Like where does this obsession focus
thing originate?
>> So there's a great line the answer is
it's not one thing. I came across it in
this book I read in back in 2022 it was
actually the the biography of Francis
Ford Coppola. Because I'm also obsessed
with when I think of entrepreneurship
I'm pretty sure the word originated from
French and I think it's like has ideas
and does them.
>> Okay.
>> And so like you built HubSpot, I built a
podcast, he's a filmmaker. I think it's
all the same thing. It's legitimately
the same thing. I I had a two and a half
hour conversation with Ed Catmull
founder of Pixar yesterday.
>> Yep.
>> He's just the [snorts] same kind of
artists that these animators and these
storytellers and these directors is the
same kind of spirit that like Steve Jobs
had and Ed worked with Steve Jobs
longer, I think 26 consecutive years.
Long longer consecutively with Steve
Jobs than anybody else. But I would say
cuz most of them are men, especially
when you're going back in history. If
you're building a company 150 years ago,
>> Totally. Most likely a dude.
>> The line I read in Francis Ford
Coppola's biography that put into words
of a recurring pattern that I'd noticed
over and over again. It says you can
always understand the son by the story
of his father. The story of the father
is embedded in the son. And so that's
why when Charlie Munger says, "Hey, I'm
a biography nut." I had met Charlie
before he died. He'd read hundreds of
biographies by the time I met him. And
his whole thing is if you have truly
understand the ideas, you have to tie it
to the personality that developed them,
which I thought was fascinating. And so
what is happening in Francis Ford
Coppola's life? His dad was a brilliant
but failed musician. And what happens
when you have aspirations and you think
you're talented and there's no evidence
of that? He starts to resent this and
he's one of the most cowardly people
I've ever come across because he tells
his young son, "There can only be one
genius in the family and it's me." And
he would just put down his son. So the
world is not giving him what he wants
and so he's taking out his son like a
[__] coward, right? He's opposite. I
know you have a son, I do too. It's like
I tell him you can do whatever you want
in the world. It's the exact opposite.
But this guy is a coward and a terrible
father.
And so
Francis Ford Coppola internalizes that
and he has this crazy work ethic. At the
time when Francis Ford Coppola becomes a
director, a feature film director in a
Hollywood, there was no such thing as
young directors at the time.
>> Yeah.
>> And so he's a few years older than
George Lucas and Steven Spielberg and
they see this guy doing it and they're
like, "Oh, I can do it." Fast forward,
the the guy would work 24/7, fall asleep
editing the movie, like unbelievable
work ethic. Few years later, a decade
later, he wins an Academy Award
>> Mhm.
>> and he let his dad do the soundtrack or
the score of the movie and his dad
wins an Oscar
>> Mhm.
>> for the score of the movie that his son
made. It's almost like for full circle.
It's like who's the genius now? You
wouldn't have even had this opportunity
if it wasn't for me.
>> Are most of these people normal,
well-adjusted people, or are they kind
of broken from an early age and that
brokenness causes this obsession?
>> Do you consider yourself a normal,
well-adjusted person?
>> I wouldn't can just consider myself
normal at all. Exactly.
>> I don't either. I'm relatively
well-adjusted.
What does well-adjusted mean to you?
>> I can function in society relatively
well. I can have a conversation with
you.
>> Yeah, but we're like the same kind of
personality type.
>> I'm not so focused that I can't like
pick my head up and look around.
>> Can you
do you have the patience, like let's say
if your kid if your son was small and
you're put into a random collection of
parents, they're not entrepreneurs, they
don't have that kind of personality, can
you sustain a conversation with them for
a few hours or would you go crazy?
>> I think I'm better at that than the
average entrepreneur.
>> Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> I can't I can't
>> My co-founder could not.
>> Okay, exactly. So you know this
personality type. No, they're obviously
they're they're not normal. They're I
would not consider them well-adjusted.
It doesn't mean you have to be a prick.
This is a very important point.
>> Okay, I wanted to ask you that cuz a lot
of the best founders of my generation
were described as [__]
>> So you have to be an [__] to be a
good CEO?
>> Um no. No, definitely not. Okay.
>> No, absolutely not. I'm actually working
on something. Daniel Ek, founder of
Spotify, and we just hired an author
who's going to write this book that may
never be published.
But we're building this framework
because Daniel is very interested in
mapping out all the different founder
archetypes. And for this exact reason.
Because when he started Spotify 20 years
ago,
everybody tried to imitate Steve Jobs.
>> Of course.
>> Founders today, who they going to
imitate? Elon or Jensen?
>> Yep.
>> And he's like, I wasted years of my life
trying to imitate a person I am not. He
is much more like a coach. He describes
himself as like a he's like a team
player. He's a very different kind of
archetype. And he would try to like
almost like wear somebody else's clothes
or wear somebody else's personality.
He's like, "This isn't working."
>> Yep.
>> And what he realizes now, you know, he
he knows himself way better. Now he's in
his 40s. He has two decades of
experience. He knows a ton about the
founders. He's like, "Oh, there are all
these different types. We don't have
words for them." And so the project that
we're working on right now
>> I love this.
>> Yeah. And if you want to help, let me
know cuz I think some feedback and some
insights into it. Every founder I talk
about, they're like, "This we need
this." Because
Daniel's point is like more important
than like product market fit or even
like founder industry fit. He believes
the most important is
founder problem fit.
>> Yep.
>> Like think about Demis Hassabis from
DeepMind.
There's one great company he had in him.
It was DeepMind. He was put on this
planet to do what he is doing. That's
the perfect example of founder problem
fit. Steve Jobs, founder problem fit
with what he was doing, perfect example.
And so hopefully what we're trying to do
is like map out these archetypes. There
might be six, there might be eight.
We'll try to figure this out. And what
we're doing is going through the back
catalog of founders and using that as
trying to to map all these different
out. And then have a way for you to to
identify, "Oh, this is my archetype."
And then here's maybe 10 examples of
historical people that also founders
that also have the same archetype. So
maybe you should go read about them and
how they ran their company and how they
did. And then what other archetypes
other founders work well together. It's
going to take a long time, but yeah,
this idea I rejected completely that you
have to come from a broken home or you
have to be an [__] or you have to be,
you know, X Y and Z. I went up to Canon
and and recorded a podcast with Toby
Lutke, who's very fascinating. And he
said the best way. He's like, "There's
not one right way to do what you're
trying to do. There's probably a
hundred. You've got to figure out what's
right for you."
>> Let me ask you about a specific
archetype, and this is a little awkward,
but if you think about autism spectrum
disorder, it's a very wide spectrum. And
for some it's debilitating, and some
it's it's a superpower.
And like I I'm not as deep as you, but
if I look at the kind of modern
trillion-dollar company CEOs from Jensen
to Jobs to Gates to Bezos, Zuckerberg,
Elon, Larry Ellison,
six out of the 10 have publicly said
that they're on the spectrum, and maybe
a couple others are, too. I don't know.
What is your take on that?
>> I just found this Peter Thiel quote
about this that I think is interesting.
And I do think for some people, for Elon
in particular, it's definitely a
superpower because he has this line he
says, I think it's a this is a direct
quote from Elon. I think it's a real
weakness to want to be liked, a real
weakness, and I do not have that. This
is what Peter said about this. Let me
read like four sentences to you. Many of
the more successful entrepreneurs seem
to be suffering from a mild form of
Asperger's.
>> Yes.
>> Where it's like you're missing the
imitation socialization gene. Now, this
is I think Peter's take on this is
really good. We need to ask what it is
about our society where those of us who
do not suffer from Asperger's are at
some massive disadvantage because we
will be talked out of our interesting,
original, creative ideas before they're
even fully formed.
>> Yes.
>> Think about trying to talk Elon out of
building SpaceX. Good luck with that.
This is the last thing that Peter says.
Oh, that's a bit too weird. That's a
little too strange. And maybe I'll just
go ahead and open that restaurant I've
been talking about that everyone else
can understand and agree with, or do
something extremely safe and
conventional.
>> Yes. So, it's pretty common today, even
the current founders.
>> Definitely in tech.
>> If you look back to Carnegie and
Rockefeller, is there any evidence in
what you've been reading that that was
pretty prevalent back then, too?
>> No. No.
I don't think so. That That's the
interesting thing. Maybe there's
something particular about technology.
We're in San Francisco today.
You know, people are like, you should
move here. I think it's very beautiful,
you know, physical beauty, but I have a
very unique vantage point in the founder
ecosystem because all kinds of founders
listen to founders. And what I would say
about dropping into these different
communities is like the problem with the
Bay Area and San Francisco
is they're all memetic about being
anti-memetic, so that therefore makes
them the most memetic of all.
>> Mhm.
>> And I think a lot of this is people
pretending to have autism or pretending
Yeah, 100%. We naturally imitate.
>> Yes.
>> And even though Peter Thiel spread
obviously, you know, the the issue with
being memetic and that then I think
increased people being memetic.
>> Okay. Do you know a lot of VCs?
And there's some tropes about what VCs
are looking for in founders. What do VCs
have wrong? Like you studied the best.
>> I don't actually spend any time with
VCs.
>> Chip on your shoulder.
>> Yeah.
>> Carnegie for Jesus.
>> Rockefeller.
>> Rockefeller. Did they all have a chip on
their shoulder?
>> I don't know about all of them, but like
we could take specific examples. Like if
we go back to that father, the impact of
the father has on the son, right? I
mean, Rockefeller's father was a
bigamist. He had multiple families. He
was a scam artist. He would try to cheat
his sons. This is in all biographies.
And I collect obscure Rockefeller
biographies. I probably have like 15 of
them. I made my own biography. I have a
1,700 page transcript that I'm going to
do an episode on of Rockefeller giving
this interview later in life. You can't
buy it. I got it from Rockefeller
archives. I printed it and [__] bound
it. That's how obsessed I am with
Rockefeller. And it's clearly that like
>> Was he on the spectrum?
>> No.
>> Okay.
>> I don't think so.
>> But he was obsessed.
>> Focused.
>> Okay.
>> And and part of this
>> Do you have a chip on your shoulder?
>> Yeah, for sure.
>> Did they all?
>> Trying to think of counter examples that
did not. I can't think of one right now.
I'm sure
>> So generally, yes.
>> Yeah, generally, yes. I think talking
absolutes, we're obviously going to find
some kind of example, but yeah,
generally, yes.
>> Okay. Does
Does sort of the immigrant advantage VCs
like immigrants, people who
landed in this country I interviewed
Khaz from
>> OpenDoor.
>> Yes, who I love, by the way. It just
wasn't a lot of options to him and that
risk-adjusted option starting a company
was the best option. What is your take
on that? Sort of a common trope amongst
VCs, they like the immigrant advantage.
>> only speak from my personal experience.
My dad was born in Cuba. I'm the son of
a Cuban immigrant. I grew up meeting
people that came to this country. They
risked their lives literally on a
[__] rafts. And think about how much
you love your son and how bad Cuba had
to be and communism had to be to put
your
14-year-old or 9-year-old son on a raft
and hope to make that 90-mi journey to
South Florida.
>> Yep.
>> What does that tell you? That had a
profound impact on me. And I This is
where I'm like this most most
pro-American, pro-capitalist person that
I know.
>> It's just cuz it's like, no, I know what
like we have. Like I'm unabashedly
pro-American, pro-capitalist. And I
think a lot of these people, even if
they don't become entrepreneurs, they
have fierce work ethics because they're
like, "Oh my god, I didn't have any
opportunity. Now I come to this country
and it's unlimited opportunity." And
it's weird that the people that their
families have been here for multiple
generations think, "Oh, there's no
opportunity. Everything's gone. This
This sucks." It's like,
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, what did this surprise me when I
looked at kind of the modern tech CEOs?
Only three of the 10 were immigrants.
Jensen was an immigrant. Elon was an
immigrant from South Africa. Sergey was
an immigrant from Russia. All the more
born here. That actually
>> but those three were responsible for
what? Like
>> Oh, yeah. In in in terms of market cap.
>> There's some other winners on the list,
though.
>> I was surprised. I thought it was going
to be eight out of the 10.
>> Bezos's dad was a Cuban immigrant.
>> Yep.
>> A bunch of them had
>> Bezos is a Cuban
>> So, three out of the 10 were immigrants.
Three out of the 10 dads were
immigrants. But it certainly wasn't the
the the common factor.
>> I would never be a VC in my life, but if
I was, I wouldn't waste time trying to
be like, "Here's these patterns and like
I'm going to run this through a rubric."
It's for me like I don't even I barely
invest. And my whole thing
>> is just like I don't The investments
I've done, it's just like I don't even
want to you to tell me what the company
name is or what it does. I just like bet
on you. Like I knew for a fact that
there was no way I wasn't going to
succeed. So, I will [__] kill myself
before I fail.
Um and that's what I would look for. I
wouldn't look for like chip on shoulder,
immigrant, anything. Like this person's
going to figure like Ed Catmull
yesterday, one of my favorite things he
ever said. And keep in mind, Steve Jobs
said he learned more about managing
highly talented people from Ed Catmull
than anybody else in his career.
>> That's a hell of a compliment.
>> And Ed goes, it's all about the people.
Cuz he'd he'd give these talks and he'd
be like he'd ask like what's more
important, ideas or people? And he's
like no one realizes the false false
economy. He's like ideas come from
people, therefore people are more
important than ideas. And his whole
thing was it's all the talented people.
So he's like if you give a great idea to
a mediocre team, they'll [__] it up.
>> Yeah.
>> If you give a mediocre idea to a great
team, they'll either fix it or throw it
out and create something new.
>> Yes.
>> So that's what I would look for. It's
like Travis Kalanick like just look into
his history. That dude was going to make
Uber work.
>> Yep.
>> Or he was going to die trying.
>> Yep. Okay. You studied all these folks.
Some founders who walk through the door
at Sequoia and they're solo founders,
some are co-founders, some have big
teams. For the most part when I look
back at it, some had founders at the
beginning, but generally it was the one
person that drove the company. It's
always one. And that other founder sort
of there could be some examples, but
this is also
>> Doesn't I I again, I don't pay attention
too much to the startup scene. Doesn't Y
Combinator like heavily recommend
co-founders?
>> I think in general the the conventional
wisdom is co-founders is a very good
idea. In fact, MIT did a big study and
they said the optimal number of
co-founders is three. I'm not sure I buy
that. Anyway, you spent some time in
Charlie Munger who was not the
co-founder
of Berkshire Hathaway, but sort of was.
>> Yeah, I
>> What have you What have you learned
about that co-founder situation? What
What about partnerships that We've
studied all these folks.
>> So So we're at Sequoia. I think
people should read the forward to the
updated version of Michael Moritz's book
Return to the Little Kingdom. So it's
book he wrote before I think he even was
at Sequoia.
>> Yeah.
>> From the first like six years of Apple.
Then he did this updated version like
2009 2010 called the Return to the
Little Kingdom. Read the forward of that
book.
>> Okay.
>> First of all, Moritz's writing [__]
incredible.
>> Great writer.
>> Oh my god.
I want to do a podcast so bad on the
biography he did of Don Valentine. It's
like the perfect biography. It's like 60
pages long.
>> Believe it or not, I never read it.
>> Oh my god, you need to read it today.
Read it this weekend. It's phenomenal.
>> Got it.
>> He was talking about, you know, Steve is
singular. It's like when had anybody
essentially
refounded the way he frames it in the
four, he's like, "Steve refounded Apple.
He didn't found Apple once, he founded
it twice, and the second time he was
alone."
And then he pulled off the craziest
turnaround in technology
history. And so this is when I think of
like even they're like, "Oh, Buffett's
not the founder of Berkshire Hathaway
cuz he's Shut up.
And just like Munger. Munger's just
Munger's just co-founder, dude.
>> Carnegie, Ford, all these folks.
There wasn't many partnerships.
>> No, that's not true. So, Carnegie didn't
even run his company. This guy named
Henry Clay Frick
>> Okay.
>> ran his company. There's a great
biography on this I'll send to you.
You'll love it. It's called Meet You in
Hell, and it's about the bitter
partnership between Andrew Carnegie and
Henry Clay Frick.
>> Okay.
>> Frick was the operator. Carnegie was
often like sailing around the world when
Frick was the one building Carnegie
Steel, and he kind of forced the sale to
J.P. Morgan. It's a fascinating story.
Anytime there's like this new
technological change and disruption,
there is physical violence, and we're
seeing this with the attacks for against
the data centers and the founders of
these AI companies.
>> Yes.
>> That is unbelievably predictable. It
reoccurs throughout history. Frick, let
me tell you about Frick.
They're going through this. It's
Industrial Revolution. There's all this
change. You know, when you have strikes,
people are just go read the history.
They died about this. Frick got shot in
the neck. An assassin went into his
office, shot him in the neck, grazed
him, right? Then they they they arrested
the guy.
Frick had it sewed up and insisted on
finishing his day's work, and then went
home.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay.
>> So, Frick is a a very badass dude.
>> Is this an exception though? Like is the
co-founders that or the partners that
last an exception rather than
sort of
>> I would take him one-on-one. So, like if
you want to go through the robber barons
>> Yeah, but 400 for crying out loud.
>> Yeah, I know. No, but like but like
okay, so like Carnegie was like made all
the money. He was the largest
shareholder, but Frick was running the
company. He He was smart enough to
acquire Frick's company and realized
>> But like Ford?
>> No, Ford was an autocrat.
>> Okay.
>> And like wouldn't listen to anybody
else. He would remember by 1919, he went
to he bought out all his [__]
shareholders. He owned 100%
>> Rockefeller?
>> of Ford Motor Company.
Rockefeller built a team of founders.
>> Okay.
>> If you look at his board, it's it's not
a board, but it's like his they called
them partners. All the people taking
dividends from Standard, almost every
single one was a previous founder. And
he made essentially a board or like a
company of founders. He happened to be
the dominating personality. It was much
more of like a
I don't even know how There might have
been a dozen of them or eight. I forgot
the number, but there was a lot of them.
I talked to Munger about this. Like
he he was just like Buffett is a
once-in-a-century talent. And he's like,
"You are so arrogant."
Cuz Munger had a big ego. Like when I
met him, he's he told me the funniest
thing.
>> I'm actually surprised to hear that. I
thought he subjugated his ego
>> His ego a lot.
>> He talks about this. So, he used that
word subjugate. That's exactly what he
said. But he goes, "If I could do life
again, I always thought I was smarter
than everybody else. If I could do life
again, I'd still think I was smarter
than everybody else, but I'd do a better
job of hiding it."
>> [laughter]
>> Okay.
>> But at this point he goes, "I thought,
you know, I was really smart, but I
recognized the talent that Buffett had
that I didn't." And Buffett was more
singularly focused. He wanted to like
fish and boat and design architecture
and do real estate and do all this other
stuff. So, he's like, "What How arrogant
would I have to be to not sub- jugate
myself to a once-in-a-century talent?"
>> Got it.
>> His thing was more of like Buffett let
him shape his mind and his thinking, but
he he realized that Buffett was the the
the driving engine behind their success.
>> One of my ah-has though, and I haven't
listened to all your podcasts, is I
don't think there's a lot of co-founding
teams that lasted the test of time. I
think it's pretty rare, and I kind of
see that today in in Silicon Valley.
>> Yeah.
>> There's kind of one dominant person.
>> Yeah, and then they go away.
That second person you yell at. Wozniak
went away. All the people that
co-founded of Facebook went away.
>> It's pretty common.
>> Yeah. I This is This is my argument
about this. It's like Now, maybe that
one guy needed these other people in the
beginning, but there's always just one
There's a singular drive Usually a
singular driving force behind the
company.
>> Let's talk about these individuals. You
can get inside their heads. And some
people have positive self-talk. I have
negative self-talk.
>> Still?
>> Yes.
>> I just changed this about myself.
>> It It's the best ever.
>> Okay. I've tried. And what about these
people you're interviewing? Do they have
imposter syndrome? Do they have negative
self-talk? Do they overcome?
>> The imposter syndrome is an interesting
idea. Interesting question.
I can't think of anybody I think that
has imposter syndrome right now.
>> You still do?
>> Yeah, I feel like
kind of nervous right now.
>> Why are you nervous?
>> Just damn.
>> [laughter]
>> So, I don't know about the imposter
syndrome.
>> I was just in a board meeting for the
last 3 hours. Little It's like, "What am
I doing here?"
>> Oh, interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> One of the greatest piece of advice that
Steve Jobs ever got he got from Nolan
Bushnell. So, Nolan Bushnell was like 9
or 10 years older than him. He was his
mentor and founder of Atari. And he told
Steve, he's like, "If you pretend to be
in control, everybody else will assume
that you are."
>> [laughter]
>> Okay.
>> Steve took that advice and ran with it.
So, I don't know about imposter
syndrome. What was the other part of
your question?
>> Just the negative self-talk.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean Jensen, dude.
>> Yeah.
>> Like Like he wakes up every day and he
says he looks in the mirror and says,
"Why do you suck so much?"
>> Yeah. He
It
Do you think that's common?
>> I mean, then you think about Elon. He
says his mind is a storm. He doesn't see
He seems to like embrace chaos and need
like some kind of foil or some kind of
problem. He seems to be like freaked out
when things are going well.
>> Yes.
>> Uh so, I I definitely think he's got a
dark mind.
>> I'm kind of negative inside, but that's
a founder trying to project positive
outside.
>> I think it's way more common. The best
founders, they don't like sleep on wins.
They essentially do something great.
They celebrate for like a day and then
back to it. So, like I just did Tony Xu
of DoorDash, who I think you guys were
investors in. Yeah. And his whole thing
is like
he's like, "We got so much more to do."
He's like, "Okay, we had a something
good happen. Like, let's go out to
dinner." And by the time of the dinner,
before dinner's over, I'm thinking of
the 17 things that are not going right.
That's why he's great. That's also
different than like
being super critical and negative. And I
think for me Brad Jacobs
>> Yeah.
>> who started eight separate
billion-dollar companies uh he's the one
built Reading his book and the building
relationship with him. I don't know what
happened. This has never happened in my
life. But just something about being
around him cuz he has 45 years of
experience as an entrepreneur, longer
than I've been alive.
And he's a be [__] ruthless with
himself.
>> Mhm.
>> He's like, "It's not serving me."
And we were talking about this. He's
like, "You love what you do." He's like,
"Would you stop Like, that's He's like,
your your source of drive, that's what
that negative source of drive is not
serving you anymore. Now, you love what
you do, you found what you think is your
life's work. Your inner drive should be
generative. It should be like, 'Hey, I'm
trying to make something that's good for
the world that I love to do that I'm
very proud of.'"
>> Mhm.
>> And I I'm telling you, it was almost
like might not have been overnight, but
pretty There's just something that
clicked. I'm like, "I'm done with that."
And now it's just like I wake up every
day, I'm like, "I cannot believe." Like,
I was texting my team last night when we
got done with Ed Catmull. I was like,
"How is this my life?"
>> But then that that negative self-talk is
what got you to where you are today.
>> But but then your fuel source has to
change.
>> Yeah.
>> Because it could also destroy you.
>> Right.
>> Yeah, and so it's like I Again, I know I
don't want to do something for 5 years,
for 10 years, for 15 years, for I want
to do it forever. If you look at the
people I'm selecting to talk to they've
been doing it for 30 years, 40 years. I
just I'm obsessed with people that
People say if Oh, if you love what you
do, you do it for free. There's another
level. If you love what you do, they
couldn't pay you to stop.
>> Yes.
>> Those are the people I love.
>> Yes. Okay, you brought up something
interesting about platform changes. The
Industrial Revolution, obviously huge
platform change. Even like Henry Ford
and the assembly line, kind of a big
platform change.
>> Massive.
>> When those things happened,
did the profile of the founder CEO
change and did the way they ran their
companies change? Cuz we're going
through something and maybe bigger,
maybe not, but probably bigger now.
>> What do you mean by the profile change?
>> I'll give you an example. You know, Paul
Graham talked about this thing as
founder mode and manager mode. Manager
mode being kind of Jack Welch
military star style organizational
structure, very top-down.
Founder mode being Brian Chesky, who
pretty distrustful of conventional
wisdom,
thinner layers of management, gets right
down to the coal face as much as
possible. And so those are sort of the
two modes I see of CEOs today. People
are kind of tilting towards founder
mode. In the Dorsey interview we were
talking about a second ago, Jack
Dorsey's doing, I call it Dorsey mode,
where he gets rid of the org chart, he
gets rid of titles, and more and more of
the decisions are actually made by his
AI system in the middle of the company.
And the people are in charge are just
giving more context to that AI system in
the middle, circular shaped. They're
feeding contests, they have judgment on
the outside. Over time, the AI system
makes very few of the decisions today,
but maybe 5%, 10%, and the percentage of
decisions the AI system makes versus the
humans starts to flip. And so I kind of
call it Dorsey mode, like a new way to
think about building a company, far
fewer people than you would have needed
in the previous generation. Did
something like that happen to the
profile or the way they built companies
back in the previous
>> It's a great question. I just asked
Michael Dell this.
>> Mhm.
>> Because if you think about Dell, like he
started company when he was 19 with
$1,000. He's like, "Hey, I'm going to my
University of Texas dorm room and I'm
going to take on the biggest company in
the world, which is IBM, which is
absolute batshit crazy idea, right?
Most people don't know, I just had a
conversation with Marc Andreessen about
this on my podcast.
IBM was the first company in history to
hit a hundred billion dollar market cap.
It had 80% market share of the entire
technology industry. I think Mark said
on the podcast that's like having 10
Googles. It's just like we haven't seen
that level of domination ever since
then. It's just a crazy thing and he
went up succeeding and Dell was actually
profitable every single quarter for the
first like 20 years of its existence.
It's like it's a crazy feat. And cuz I'm
always skeptical of this time is
different because everybody in history
says this time is different. And so
Michael has had to navigate through how
many different platform shifts and
technological revolutions. I asked him
that because I can't like to me it feels
different. And he's like no this is this
is not like anything else that I've been
through. I actually think the way to run
a company Toby Lutke believes this too.
I I do think the way to do it and how
you could do it and what's available to
you is completely different. Like this
time
in my opinion is actually different
because the amount of leverage that
yeah exactly. So that that's what I
would say.
>> I think the shape of the organization
changes.
I think the number of people you need
changes. I think the way you compensate
people cuz let's say you have 100 X
people now that are really proficient
with these tools changes. I think the
planning cycles changes cuz it's moving
so fast. I actually think
it's different. Like compared to like I
went through the internet like 1990s
when I started my career and Google came
along and that SaaS came along and
mobile came along. This is a lot
different.
>> There's a great line in the Almanac of
Naval that my friend Eric Jorgenson
wrote about the book of Naval Ravikant
and he says in the age of infinite
leverage being at the extreme of your
craft is very important.
That was before AI and AI is leverage. I
think this is why we talked about I
think we started this conversation when
me and you've had this conversation
before. It's like the premium on focus.
Just trying to be the best in the world
whatever it is that you do you're going
to reap so many more rewards. Being at
the very frontier and the extreme edge
of your craft is going to be
unbelievably valuable to the point where
you just said you know you can have
somebody who makes you know 1 X and then
you can have the most talented people
we've already seen some of this. They're
not 100 times more valuable. They're
like 1,000
I don't know. So I'm really close to
John and Jordy of TBP and I'm obsessed
with podcasters. I've built
relationships with all of them.
And the way I put this is
yeah, maybe they bought the show. The
show is incredible. I spent a lot of
time talking to them about this.
But, Jordy came into podcasting and it
wasn't like he was like this 2x as good
marketer as the next best podcaster. He
was like a 100x better.
And if I was open AI, I would make him
the CMO of open AI. The value is like
he, you know, he could produce
I'm not saying he will, saying he could
produce billions of a single individual
and the ideas that come from his very
unique brain when it comes to marketing.
He's really gifted at this. Look what he
did for the show for that was seven only
17 months old. Everybody's talking about
oh, all these people trying to clone
them. It's like they can't clone their
minds. They have no idea what was
coming.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, yeah, I do think you're going to
see people like that in other areas.
Marketing, obviously research,
everywhere else that you should pay them
10,000x.
>> I think that I don't know about that.
One other thing that's different and I
want to press you on a little bit
is I was a preacher of focus inside of
HubSpot. Every year it's like we can
only do three things. What are the three
things? What are the 50 we're not going
to do?
I've noticed that the modern AI native
CEOs like Winston from Harvey and
Anton from Lovable, Mati from 11 Labs,
they're not that focused. They're doing
tons of stuff and they're able to do
stuff fast. Bezos used to talk about
these one-way doors and two-way doors.
>> Yeah.
>> Things that used to be one-way doors
like we're going to do this a big
initiative. We're going to go
international, some big thing. A lot of
those one-way doors are two-way doors
now. Like, okay, let's press for a month
and see how far we can get. Okay, if we
miss, let's just go back.
What's your take on that? That maybe
focus isn't as important in the age of
AI.
>> I don't know if I have a take on it. I
would say like I'd be very wary. Like
these people that you mentioned have
built great products. It they haven't
built durable businesses yet. We have to
see how this plays out.
>> Yes, still early.
>> Yeah, so that's the issue I would have.
It's like yeah, maybe there's a good
ideas, but like I'm interested in people
that build durable businesses. I again,
I don't want to be
acquired. I want to be around running my
business forever. I I've spent a bunch
of time with older founders.
I'm talking 70 A lot of time with older
founders. No, but no, but I'm talking
about like recently like 70, 75, 80
years old. You know I realized like if
you sell your main thing,
get out of the game completely. Because
if you sell your best idea and then you
have another decade, two decades, 25
years ahead of you and then you're just
working on like a bunch of [__]
I don't know how many people can found,
you know, multiple great companies
>> Rare. And they're like, I'm very rare.
>> Yeah. Elon like
>> I think it's the second-time founder
thing is really overrated cuz most of
the successes are first-time.
>> And so what I've seen is people that
either
sold their best idea that was a
generational company or maybe they had a
falling out or something happened. Like
now you have to wait till they're 75
years old. This happened maybe 25 years
ago.
>> Asking for a friend.
>> you don't want to be in that spot. And
so my point is you're all in or all out.
But why would you be all in on your
second, third, fourth, fifth best idea?
And then they try to recapture that
magic and it's almost impossible
especially at 50 or 60
to do what you did at 25 or 35. Like
that's very difficult. That was just
some some kind of like weird sixth sense
I had about having these conversations
where it's like, man, this is like so
far down what you had accomplished in
the past and like you're just like, oh,
I have to play the game. It's like I
would just if you're out, then just
you're done for the rest of your life.
Go [__] on your boat or go do
whatever.
>> not capable of being all out.
>> and I don't think so either. That's why
you don't sell. And so that's what I
mean about be very hesitant of taking
knowledge or like ideas and like, oh,
look, this company that has raised a
bunch of money and is a stone startup is
working on 15 different products. Well,
let's see how the time Give it time.
Let's see how it plays out. I don't
know.
>> It's fashionable in AI worlds for people
to say the best founders have great
taste.
What's your take on that and when you
look back through the 420
that you've studied
is that a common thing or is that new?
Is it [__]
>> I think taste is very real. Now, what's
what's coloring this is like I've been a
big fan of Rick Rubin.
>> Yep.
>> Taste is very real. The guy's built a
wonderful career. Same thing, started at
18 in his dorm room. He's 62, 63, still
doing the same thing. Why do people want
to work with them? Cuz he his taste.
>> Yeah.
>> And and I realized he's like scary good
at making podcasts, too.
>> Mhm.
>> And we were talking before we started
recording and I go, "Dude, I've been
thinking about you. Why are you so good
when most people make podcasts are very,
very bad?"
And I go, I realized you took a skill
>> very, very bad? Is this your way of
telling me
>> No. I wouldn't be here if you were.
>> I'm kidding.
>> Wouldn't be here if you were. No, but I
realized he took a skill from music and
applied it to podcasts.
>> Yes.
>> Which if you think about what his main
thing, I go, "You're professional
listener."
>> Okay.
>> And he lit up. And I started explaining
my theory on why you're so good at
podcasting.
>> Yeah.
>> And he goes, "Stop." He goes, "We have
He stopped. We have to record this. This
is too good." And so he agreed with that
that his his essential skill set is like
>> Not just his taste, but most people when
they're talking like maybe even when I'm
talking, maybe you're listening,
maybe you're just waiting to respond.
And it's very common for humans.
He's just like not forming any opinions
or judgment. He's just like really
interested in these people. That's why
he's very selective who he works for or
works with. And so yeah, he he has very
real taste.
>> Is he an exception though?
>> Oh, of course. Like
>> Like did Bezos have taste? Jobs
obviously had taste.
>> Jobs obviously had taste.
>> Did Nvidia did Jensen have taste? Did
Zuckerberg have taste?
>> I think So we we mentioned the Broadcom
guy. Hock Tan, I think is his name.
>> Yes.
>> He was just to speaking about this and
his whole thing was like he thinks these
founders that pontificate and like, "I
saw this strategy coming." I think his
company's like 1.5 trillion now. He's
like
>> Yeah.
>> I had [__] no idea this was going to
happen. The opportunity was in front of
me. I made a good decision. Then I was
like, "Oh, what can I do now that I got
to that next rung?" And he like looked
around and then he's like, "That was the
strategy." He's like, "There's no
[__] way. It's way too many moving
parts. Way too complicated. I could have
predicted it 20 years ago what was going
to happen." So I don't know. I I be very
wary of anything where there's like this
echo chamber on X where the current
thing, the thing of the day. I think
that's almost useless to even pay
attention to. So, I don't even think
about it.
>> This is exactly what I asked you about
like a lot of the people that you see on
X today or you read their biography,
you're studying them after they're
incredibly successful. They've hired a
PR firm to make everything look good.
They get advice on how to post on X and
how to be in the world. Advice to
founders, should themselves or this
should they get some help?
>> Depends on who you are as a person. I
mean, some of these people are terrible
people or they're terrible
communicators. I would not be yourself,
buddy.
>> [laughter]
>> Like I don't want to tell you yourself
sucks. So, I would not be yourself.
>> How much shaping should you take? Like
as the CEO I remember coming up and
we're going public and we hired people
like trying to shape me and we did a
little of it and I think it worked. Is
that a good idea or a bad idea?
>> I think it obviously depends on the
industry you're working in, who you are
as a person. Everything comes down to
like who you are as a person. What like
we have one shot at life. How do you
want to do life? This is why I like
reading biographies. It's like, yeah,
there's got a good business ideas in
there. But essentially [clears throat]
every week I'm just like this is how
this person did life. We're all doing
life. We're alive. You're listening to
this, we're doing life. How do you want
to do it? I want some ideas on how I
could do life. And so for me, I'm
unmanageable. I've run a [__] podcast
for 10 years that had no employees.
By myself. What does that tell you? Like
I have a very hard time working with
other people. Like I'm very disagreeable
and like micromanaging and and
everything else and might now this new
podcast like ask my team. Like I am
[__] I can be ruthless in a nice way.
I'm not mean but like nope, we've got to
redo that.
>> Most of these great founders are
disagreeable. True or false?
>> Yeah, for sure. For sure. But what I
would say is like I don't want to censor
myself. A good friend of mine was
mentored by Sam Zell for 25 years and I
was doing another episode on Sam Zell.
He's like, come over for dinner and I'll
give you some Sam Zell stories for your
episode.
And what you know about Sam is like he
always like ran his own money. His his
company was like his family office and
he made the investment decisions. He
would raise money on an individual
deal-by-deal basis, but never no
permanent capital structure, no fund.
You know, why do you do that? And my
friend said the funny thing, he goes,
"Sam was constitutionally unsuited to
manage institutional capital." Meaning
Sam was a wild band that was
uncontrollable. And he would say [__]
he had no filter, and he didn't want,
you know, LPs calling him saying,
"You're not professional." That kind of
thing.
Sam knew who he was. So, it depends.
Like Sam should be who he is. Maybe in
this case, this other founder shouldn't.
It really just depends on like the
industry, who you are, what you got to
be. I don't want to have multiple sides
of me. I'd rather just be like, "This is
what I believe. This is what I think is
interesting." Like if you think about
founders, like when I go through the
books, everybody's like, "How do you
pick out like what you want to talk
about?"
Like what are you thinking about when
you're reading? And I'm like,
"Absolutely nothing." Like I'm reading
and like that line sticks out to me for
some reason, I underline it. And then I
write jot down what comes to mind. And
then when I before I sit down to record,
I just go back through the highlights.
And if I read it again the second time,
and it's still interesting to me, I put
it on the podcast. There's no thinking
at all. It's all instinct.
>> Okay. You're an interesting case on this
because you did 400 plus podcasts of
mostly dead people.
And now you're doing
very much alive people. And it's a
little bit like you never want to meet
your heroes.
>> I met my hero.
James Dyson.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Let's come back to that, but any
surprises in meeting these people
face-to-face versus books? Is there
whitewashing in the books? Are the
people face-to-face like very different
than their whitewash external presence?
>> I would have to imagine
if you're the especially for
autobiographies, you write an
autobiography of your life, I write an
autobiography of my life.
>> That's whitewashed.
>> Come on, man. We're going to like
Of course.
>> You want to look the best and like even
if you don't lie about stuff, you're
going to omit stuff that makes you look
bad.
>> Of course.
>> And so this is the the I always get this
where like, "Well, how do you know the
stuff in the books is true?" You don't.
But we're not taking a his- There's no
It's not a history test.
If I read an idea in the book, right? It
said, you know, Sam Walton found a way
to beat back bureaucracy. And that never
happened, but it's still a good idea and
I apply that idea to my business. Why
did All I care is is this a useful idea?
I can't prove, nor do I care if it's
true. I'm just looking for interesting
ideas. It's not a history test. What I'd
say about all the people I've met
is they they've been unbelievably like
kind and generous and thoughtful.
>> Mhm.
>> But I also don't work for them. So who
knows and I'm not I'm not in their
family. I'm not in their house. Like
it's like a different interaction. I
don't think you
>> think people today, the great founders,
are different than the ones of 100 years
ago?
>> No.
>> Same same same personality type.
>> Same phenotype.
>> Yeah. Same
>> What else is in common?
>> Like kind of personality traits?
>> Yeah.
>> So obsession, high level dis-
disagreeableness.
>> Talk about that.
>> So somebody comes in to pitch at
Sequoia, let's say. And some people are
very charming and some people are a
little disagreeable. I think it's just
very natural to want to do business with
the very charming person. Is that a bad
instinct?
>> I've done like 15 episodes on on Steve
Jobs and I've read almost everything I
could find on him and I learned
something about him that I never knew
yesterday from Ed Catmull. And Ed said
that um
Steve fired two people off the Pixar
board and he fired them because they
never disagree with him.
>> Mhm.
>> And he's like, if they don't disagree
with me,
>> Yeah.
>> what's the what value are they giving
me?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> He wanted you to fight back and to be
>> was disagreeable himself. Are they all
disagreeable?
>> Rockefeller
had very advanced social skills, I would
say.
>> Okay. Did they all have advanced
>> No. No. No. So but Rockefeller's an
interesting thing because
there's people that worked for him for
like 40 years that said he never heard
never heard him raise his voice and
never said an unkind word.
That's crazy. And then even the way he
would arbitrate
disagreements between him and his
partners
was essentially like there's this one
thing where they wanted to invest like
$3 million into some kind of new
technology that I think would transport
oil faster or refine oil faster,
something like that. And there was a
huge disagreement on the board, and
Rockefeller sat there quietly and let
them fight. And then he said, "I believe
in this. If you guys don't want to do
this, I'll put up the money myself. If
it works, Standard Oil will pay me back.
If it doesn't, I'll eat the 3 million."
And then his partners like, "Well, if
you could take the the risk, we can,
too." And that that's how they agreed to
do it.
>> That's not disagreeable. That's
something else.
>> Yeah. It just depends on the person. But
yeah, there are these traits that that
obsession, focus,
cost control, obsessed with having
lowest cost. They see that advantage
compounds over and over again. You don't
see that with the new technology
founders at all. I think it's a great
disadvantage. Micromanagers, what Paul
Graham calls founder mode, that's not
new at all. I'm a huge fan of his
essays. But when that essay went viral,
I'm like, "We're bringing this back."
I'm like, "This is a new thing." It's
like, "They're all This is not new at
all."
>> Interesting.
>> At all. Nothing is new in in the world.
>> What is new?
>> I think what we talked about earlier,
like what Jack Dorsey was saying, what
Michael Dell was saying, that I do think
I mean, Tobi Lütke, when I would talk to
him, um
you know, he he he said that he we're
going to look back on 2026 uh we're
going to look back on this year in
history as like the year that every
single business was up for grabs.
>> Yep.
>> That you can rebuild almost every single
business AI native and have a massive
advantage. And
uh I think that's an interesting thing.
>> When you look back at all these folks,
how many of them had like great,
well-balanced personal lives,
great families, had like a really
deep life beyond between the lines?
>> I think three of them.
>> Out of all of them, only three?
>> I think uh Ed Thorp, who is a very
fascinating character, created the first
quantitative hedge fund, uh invented the
way to to count cards for blackjack,
phenomenal investor. He was the first
>> is only three.
>> Him, Sol Price. Do you know who Sol
Price is?
>> No.
>> So, Sol Price is the most influential
retailer of all time. Sam Walton said he
took more ideas from Sol Price than
anybody else. Jeff Bezos took a lot of
ideas for Amazon from Sol Price. Yeah.
So, he knows who he is. Bernie Marcus
literally got the idea for Home Depot
from Sol Price. Jim Sinegal of Costco
literally said, "I didn't learn a lot
from Sol Price. I learned everything I
know from Sol Price." So, he created all
these billionaire retailers. Other one I
would say is Brunello Cucinelli.
Okay, but it that was his autobiography
and I heard that may or may not be true.
>> Advice to founders. So, I spend all my
days with founders trying to build
trillion-dollar companies. Advice for
them on their lives.
>> I don't ever give advice.
>> Why not? I'm asking you for advice right
now.
>> For you?
>> Let's use me as a proxy.
>> I think people are going to do what they
want to do and so they'll seek out
useful information, but I think these
people that go around not you, but like
anybody that just goes around like just
trying to identify what's going on in
somebody else's life. Like I think it's
almost like
relatively useless. I think people
literally do what they want to do. I
talked to a lot of founders. Now, there
is this thing where they find it very
useful to have like a conversation they
kind of like dump
what's going on in their company to me
and I kind of run it through everything
I've read and maybe I come up with
something interesting, but I wouldn't
consider it advice. It's just like, "Oh,
[__] Rockefeller ran into that
situation. This is what he did or Ford
did this or this guy did that."
>> to build a trillion-dollar company and
have a very well-balanced life like Ed
Thorp?
>> I don't even pay attention to public
markets. I don't even understand.
>> There's 10?
>> There're 12 including like the Middle
Eastern oil oil guys.
>> Okay, so let's just take the American
companies. 10.
>> Any of those guys well-balanced? Here's
what I will say about them that I
thought was interesting.
Only two of them are divorced. Most of
them were married before they were
famous
>> Mhm.
>> and stayed married and most of them
married their spouse was kind of an
intellectually equal. They met them and
they were very accomplished on their own
and so they started out with an
intellectually
formidable [snorts]
partner very early and stuck with them.
I thought that was interesting. Of
course, like Larry Ellison's had four
wives. Like
>> six now.
>> Okay, but
>> Yeah. Um, but he's doing some heavy
lifting for these other guys.
>> But I thought it was interesting that
they all got married very early to
peers.
>> And how about through history?
>> And history, they're just like they're
terrible husbands, like divorce, like
just not I think good I would I would
not consider them in many cases bad
fathers, too.
>> I see.
>> Is this a very difficult thing to do? I
remember I just finished reading Phil
Knight's autobiography Shoe Dog for the
third time.
>> I love that book.
>> And think about what he says at the very
end. You know, like he had two sons, one
of them died tragically in a drowning
accident, and he was like trying to
reconcile this as a grown 75-year-old
man at the time. He's having a hard time
understanding this that like this push
and pull like I wanted to spend more
time with my sons, but if I'm being
honest, my biggest regret is that I
can't go back and do it all again. And
in Sam Walton's autobiography, you know,
he sacrificed a lot of time away from
his family to build Walmart, and he's he
knows he's dying. He's writing the book
when he's riddled with cancer.
>> And he didn't regret that?
>> No, that's what I was getting to. And
he's like, if I did it all again, I
would do the exact same thing I did. I'm
very skeptical of these people that gets
in their lives is like, oh, I have this
regret. Because I think it's a
personality type. It's almost like a
compulsion. If they played out life
again, they'd want to do it the same
way.
I talked to Jeffrey Katzenberg about
this, who's very interesting. He swears
he has no talent. He just throws hours
at everything. It's like, Jeffrey,
you're obviously [__] talented. But
he was telling me about this. He's like,
listen, the biggest thing with your kids
is like
quality of time, not quantity. He's just
saying, don't do it where like you're on
the phone or you're like distracted.
Like if you only have
10 hours a week with them, make those
the best 10 hours ever. Do a ton of
planning with it. Like make it so
they're it's so memorable with them. I
thought that was an interesting idea and
like recommendation. But look at the
people like the AI research right now.
This is the game of kings.
Yeah, I I I met Demis Hassabis. He just
did a an interview on Fortune where he's
just like his schedule is he has like
his thinking time from like 11:00 p.m.
to 4:00 in the morning, right? Then he
goes to sleep. Then he works a full day
at the office the next day, then has
dinner with his wife and kids, and then
does his thinking time again.
You think he's balanced? He's got two
work days.
>> Yeah.
Okay, you studied all these people. I
spend all my time with with Sequoia
founders now.
Advice to them.
How to become iconic that someone that
that you would read their book and do an
episode on them?
>> I think the the best founders like don't
need advice. I'm very skeptical of this
narrative that like
we back and discover the greatest
talent. The way I would put this is like
Michael Jordan said something very
interesting. He was at the end of his
career and Kobe Bryant's coming in.
They're like, we we discovered the you
know, Michael Jordan, we discovered the
next the next Michael Jordan to Kobe
Bryant. And he's like, this will happen
again. There will be another me.
>> Yep.
>> And he goes, first of all, you didn't
discover me. I just happened to come
around.
>> Yep.
>> And I think the best founders are like
that. Like they're not discovered. They
make themselves known.
And I'm highly skeptical. Like these are
force of nature. Again, go back to Mike
Moritz, the forward that he wrote in the
return to Little Kingdom. In a
paragraph, he can describe what a
founder is. He's like, these are
irrepressible. This is the line he says
about Jobs and the best founders.
They're irrepressible forces of nature.
>> Mhm.
>> They don't need your advice. They will
find the information. And if they want
it from you, they will seek you out.
They will find you.
>> Mhm.
>> But going around like, oh,
I would, you know, paint that a little
different or I would do it a different
way. It's like, they've got it.
>> Yeah, I think you're mostly right about
that. I don't proactively give advice.
If they ask me, I give it to them. And I
think they're good about sort of ranking
it in their head and like, I'll take
that, I'm going to throw that away.
>> And to the degree like I am somewhat
helpful in this domain and I'm trying to
be. All I'm trying to do is like, hey,
I'm going to go and read these obscure
books. There's a goldmine here of all
this past entrepreneur knowledge. No
one's [__] doing anything with it.
I'm going to like a goddamn demon go and
mine this for you. I'm going to make it
into a podcast that you can listen to in
45 minutes or an hour while your eyes
are busy doing something else and
hopefully push this information down to
the next generation of entrepreneurs. I
think that's active service is a life
well lived. When I
get to the end of my life
and he's like, don't figure it out. They
don't know what to do with it. Like I
don't over explain [__] You listen to
Founders. Like I don't over explain
[__] It's like this guy did that.
>> Nope.
>> And even when they do ask me, I'm like,
I don't know, man. Ford did this way.
This is the way this guy did this. It's
like you pick what's right for you.
>> the things that I think is interesting
about you is there's actually not that
many patterns. Like the whole episode
I'm kind of pushing one pattern.
>> I would I would say it's not formulaic.
>> Yeah.
>> There's patterns. There's no formula.
>> Any other patterns we haven't hit?
>> I think just a deep caring and love of
what you're doing and the problem you're
solving. In some cases it's like
>> Let me give you an example. Ed Catmull
talks about the very first time he met
Steve Jobs. He very first time he met
Steve Jobs before Steve got kicked out
of Apple the first time.
>> Mhm.
>> You know what Steve would talk about for
an hour? He would just use the word
insanely great products over and over
again.
>> Yeah.
>> It was still it was important to him
when he was 19, when he was 25, it was
still important to him when he when he
was dying. He just was obsessed with
insanely great products.
>> No founders ever talk about I want to
make a lot of money. How much do you
think people being motivated by money
matters? Or do you think they whitewash
that out with me wanting an insanely
great product? And
>> think small egos build big companies.
And therefore, this is what I actually
think.
>> I don't think small egos build big
companies.
>> I think all of these people have giant
egos. I think some of them are just
better at hiding it. And I think that
what what motivates most founders is not
money, it's control. And if you maintain
control and you build a business or a
product that makes somebody else's life
better, that's all business is. A
business is just an idea that makes
somebody else's life better. So if you
maintain control and you build a product
that makes somebody else's life better,
you wind up with the money anyways.
>> Yeah.
It's a side effect.
>> Um
>> They know that they're going to get the
money.
>> Yeah.
>> I can't think of I mean, Rockefeller
>> think they're born very motivated by
money? They're they're
>> Sure. Especially if you're poor.
>> They have large egos. By the way, I
looked through those 10 CEO the founders
of the American companies.
In general, there's this narrative that
they all grew up poor. In generally,
they were upper middle class suburban
families. They all grew
>> would that surprise me.
>> Especially in the tech industry.
>> Yeah.
>> But Bezos was the son of a single mom
like and his dad dipped out like
>> But mostly, they were suburban upper
middle class families.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Like Gates
>> Zuckerberg. Zuckerberg, yeah.
>> Yeah, mostly.
>> Yeah.
>> All right, any advice for life advice
for me? I'm on my second act.
>> I think Dana White
there's like a simple genius to what
Dana White runs his company that I'd
really admire. He told me something
funny. He's like, I've never read a
single book on business. I've never
listened to a single podcast, which is
hilarious. He said this cuz we talked a
bunch after. And his thing was just like
deeply know who you are. Like you've got
to know for a fact. And he's like, I've
known who I am for exactly who I am for
a long time. This is what Dana was
telling me. He's like, understand deeply
who you are.
Understand deeply what you want to do in
this world. And then once you figure out
those two things, you just wake up every
day and and get after it.
>> Mhm.
>> And I think there's like this simple
genius to that.
>> Do you think when he started UFC when
they bought it for $2 million? $2
million with an M.
That they were going to do that there's
such a thing Streaming didn't even
exist.
Right? Didn't even exist. You stay in
the game long enough to get lucky.
That's a maxim that repeats over and
over again. And you think he could have
predicted back then he was going to sign
an $8 billion deal?
>> I like that maxim.
>> Yeah, stay in the game long enough to
get lucky. You guys are jumping around
too much. This is what kills me about
these founders. They have a million
different ideas. They're like, I'm going
to start, scale, sell. Okay, then what?
Everyone's like, well, I go, "What's the
best company that that you can think of
right now?" They're like, "Oh, SpaceX."
Elon founded when he was 30, 25 years
ago. He didn't jump around. Like, he did
other [__] but he didn't let go of that
thing. All the values in the future.
This is I think really important, but
getting back to Dana's point, it's like
spend a lot of time understanding who
you are as a person and what you want to
do in the world. And then from there,
then you just wake up every day and
opportunity handled well
leads to more opportunity. And so Dana
handled that opportunity well.
Couldn't have predicted he did an $8
billion streaming deal, right? And he
goes, "What do you think my next deal's
going to look like?"
Obviously, [laughter] a lot bigger.
Yeah. I think that's hugely important.
>> Okay, I want to thank you not just for
coming on the pod, but I've been
listening to your content for a long
time and as a CEO, it's super helpful.
It's super helpful to I'm sure tons of
CEOs out here. So, you're the man. I
appreciate you. Thanks coming on the
pod.
>> Thanks for the invite.
>> Thank you for being David Senra.
Appreciate you.
I hope you liked that episode. David,
he's a very interesting cat, very
knowledgeable. I had um three takeaways
from it.
First is he talks a lot about focus.
I think it's beyond that. I think it's
obsession and
this may be me, but I think in general
it's Sequoia, we look for founders that
are obsessed with a problem. We look for
people who have gone very deep down a
rabbit hole and been obsessed with it
earlier in their careers. And then today
when they're building the company to be
very deep down that rabbit hole, have a
very deep founder market fit. Like
that's a common trait of the best
founders that he's interviewed and the
best founders that I've had on the show
and the best founders that I coach is
just a deep deep obsession, the ability
to mute the world and build your own. I
really like that quote. The second aha,
this is kind of depressing. It is very
very difficult to have good work-life
balance as a founder. Uh he went very
deep on 400 founders, only three had
what he thought was a very well-balanced
life. This isn't great news for me. I
didn't have a great uh balanced life. I
didn't have
I didn't have a lot of free time when I
was a founder and I don't know a lot of
successful founders that did. So, if
you're thinking about starting a company
and becoming a CEO,
be careful. It's a lot of work if you
really want to do it well.
The last piece that I was curious about
was this idea of imposter mode. I have
imposter mode. I did when I was a CEO
big time. I was always a little bit
nervous.
I liked what David had to say about it.
I liked even more what Brian Chesky has
to say about it. When he was early in
Airbnb,
he kind of led from a position of fear.
He had deep deep imposter syndrome.
[music]
And Brian has done a lot of work on
himself and now he leads from a position
of love.
I'm trying to be more like Brian. Like
what I love is helping CEOs and founders
like yourself go on that journey
>> [music]
>> from early-stage startup founder to big
behemoth legendary scale-up CEO. And I'm
trying to lead from a position of love
versus a position of fear.
I recommend you do the same. Hope you
liked the episode. Uh you can follow me
@bhalligan on X and we can chat about it
more.
>> [music]